Grid block in core + primitive Container block (#3180)
plone/volto: docs/source/blocks/core/container.md

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Volto container description and developer notes"
    "property=og:description": "Volto container description and developer notes"
    "property=og:title": "Volto container"
    "keywords": "Volto, React, blocks, container, Plone"
---

(container-label)=

# Container

```{versionadded} Volto 17.0.0-alpha.10
```

A container in Volto is a core component that contains blocks.
A container consists of an Edit component that allows users to add, edit, or delete specific blocks inside the container.

## Building blocks using a container

When building a custom block that uses a container as its base, you must pass your block's properties into the container.

## Container properties

The container has particular properties.

> Currently only one property is supported, although others may be added in future releases.

Author: done.

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Volto Container Block primitive description and developer notes"
    "property=og:description": "Volto Container Block primitive description and developer notes"
    "property=og:title": "Volto Container Block primitive"
    "keywords": "Volto, React, blocks, container, primitive, Plone"
---

(container-block-primitive)=

# Container Block Primitive

```{versionadded} Volto 17.0.0-alpha.10
```

Volto comes with a Container Block primitive.
It is __not__ a block by itself, rather than that, it allows to build blocks that contains other blocks.
The Volto Grid block is build using it.
The whole idea of primitive is to use it as "template" and pattern to use it and its internal methods to build blocks that share the same feature: allow the blocks in block container and the management of them.

> The blocks build on this primitive will use schema properties (or styling wrapper ones) to provide layout to the containing blocks (horizontal/vertical/spacing/behavior/backgroundColor/...) along with other look and feel properties.

Author: Yeah, let's find a moment and talk about this!

> The blocks build on this primitive will use schema properties (or styling wrapper ones) to provide layout to the containing blocks (horizontal/vertical/spacing/behavior/backgroundColor/...) along with other look and feel properties.

Author: @stevepiercy in the meanwhile we don't talk yet, think in the primitive, as a base class from where to inherit from, only that in React, you "compose" components from other components so you can reuse props and methods.

The container has particular properties.
Currently only one property is supported, although others may be added in future releases.

`direction`
:   The arrangement of blocks in the container, either `horizontal` or `vertical`.
    The default value is `horizontal`.

`templateChooser`

> : To complete the full customization of the template choice experience, you can customize the component that shows the choices as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   To complete the full customization of the template choice experience, you can customize the component that shows the choices as well.
```

> So you can enhance the default component located in {file}`src/components/manage/TemplateChooser/TemplateChooser.jsx` by providing your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can enhance the default component located in {file}`src/components/manage/TemplateChooser/TemplateChooser.jsx` by providing your own component.
```

> Remember that most likely you will have to provide also your own custom `templates` function that will play well with this one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You might also need to provide your own custom `templates` function that is compatible with your component.
```

`editBlockWrapper`

> : You can customize the container's `editBlockWrapper` by providing your own. This will be passed to the `BlocksForm` component used by the container. It is used to customize the block wrapper if the block that you are building needs to have one different for the user experience of your block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   You can customize the container's `editBlockWrapper` by providing your own.
    This will be passed to the `BlocksForm` component used by the container.
    It is used to customize the block wrapper if the block that you are building needs to have a different one for the user experience of your block.
```
